# Exploratory_Data_Analysis
Coursera _Project1
PLOT 1 OVERVIEW
#Reads in the “Individual household electric power consumption Data Set” available from the UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository, and produces a histogram of the frequency of Global Active Power consumption in kilowatts for the dates February 1 and 2, 2007.

##PLOT 1 STEP-BY-STEP

Overview : plot1 starts the function. The file is read into R and assigned to the power variable. The date column is reformatted as recommended in the assignment instructions. The two days of interest are subsetted out of the power data frame and assigned to new data frame named "df. The Global_active_power col is reformatted as a numeric vector. The histogram function is generated with the title "Global Active Power", red columns, and an x-axis label of "Global Active Power (kilowatts. The file is saved as  "plot1.png. 

PLOT 2 OVERVIEW : Plot2 reads in the “Individual household electric power consumption Data Set” available from the UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository, and produces a line graph of the Global Active Power consumption in kilowatts for the dates February 1 and 2, 2007. The plot starts the function and read the into R and assigned to the power data frame #3 the date column is reformatted as recommended in the assignment instructions #4 the two days of interest are subsetted out of the power data frame and assigned to new data frame named "df" #5 the Global_active_power col is reformatted as a numeric vector #6 a new column titled "timestamp" is added to df. This column consists of the date and time pasted together and reforamtted as a POSIXct class. #7 plot is generated with timestamp on x-axis and global active power on y-axis. Default x-axis label is removed. Y-axis label is specified. #8 png is generated as a 480 pixel by 480 pixel image. Its saved as "PLot2.png". 

PLOT 3 OVERVIEW : Plot 3 begins by reading the files into R and assign the power data frame. The date column is reformatted as recommended in the assignment instructions. The  two days of interest are subsetted out of the power data frame and assigned to new data frame named "df. The Sub_metering cols are reformatted as numeric vectors. The columns  consists of the date and time pasted together and reforamtted as a POSIXct class. The plot is generated with timestamp on x-axis and sub metering levels on y-axis. Y-axis label is specified. A Legend is added with to the top right with line colors and variable names. The [lot is saved as "plot3.png". 

PLOT 4 OVERVIEW : plot4starts the function. For example: plot4 is read into the R program and assigned  to the power data frame. The date column is reformatted as recommended in the assignment instructions. The two days of interest are subsetted out of the power data frame and assigned to new data frame named "df". The Sub_metering,Voltage, Global_active_power, and Global_reactive_power cols are reformatted as numeric vectors and a new column titled "timestamp" is added to df. A png is generated as a 480 pixel by 480 pixel imag and is saved as a png file . 
